Dogs and cats naturally wear down their nails while walking, running, or scratching trees.
However, some animals don't, and this can be a problem. Cutting the nails can be a difficult
problem for both of you. Initially, it seems that it will be impossible, but with love
and patience, it can be done. Sometimes your dog or cat may be uncomfortable when you are
handling parts of the body that he isn't used to having touched. Get him to lie down, try
to relax him, and slowly get him used to allowing you to touch his ears, legs, feet, and paws.
This will be helpful for when you need to visit the vet or your groomer. Like humans,
dogs have two parts to their nails. The end of the nail is dead. The other part, closest
to the paw, has small veins. Sometimes you can see where the vein is, but this depends
on the color of the nail. It is important not to cut too close to the paw, as this will
make him bleed. The first time you cut your dog's nails, let him smell the scissors or
nail clippers. Let him get used to them. Slowly, when the dog is relaxed, cut one nail at a
time, talking to him the whole time. Consult your vet or pet shop if you have any questions.
Make sure you look for the dewclaw and cut the nail, because sometimes this can cause
problems and become embedded in the skin. Gloria nail clippers and scissors remain very
sharp. Other clippers or scissors blunt very quickly, and instead of cutting the nails,
they can splinter or break them. If your clippers or scissors do not cut properly, please change
them for new ones. Your dog will love that you spend time taking care of him. Do you
need more information? Do not hesitate. Contact us at Gloria. We are here to help.